this video is sponsored by Squarespace
whether you need a domain website or
online store make it with Squarespace
this episode is brought to you by
Squarespace this episode has been
brought to you by Squarespace this video
was supported in part by Squarespace
this episode by Squarespace episode is
brought to you by Squarespace
video is brought to you by squares video
is brought to you by wares this video
was made possible by Squarespace
nice to thank Squarespace for sponsoring
this week's episode this episode was
brought to you by Squarespace
this episode is brought to you by
Squarespace brought to you by
Squarespace
Squarespace so space square feet twice a
square C square space to a beach
[Music]
you
so if you're like me you've probably
noticed that there are like a lot of
youtubers sponsored by Squarespace
there are a lot of sponsored youtubers
period these days and I always wondered
about how all that works this year I
finally found out firsthand see when you
make a random video that just happens to
get one or two million views your inbox
starts getting filled with unsolicited
offers this guy wanted me to make a
video reviewing his self-published book
promising me exposure
this guy says me about 1 email a day
begging me to join his multi-channel
network this girl wants me to do a let's
play of her company's mobile game I even
get requests from monthly snack box
companies asking me to do taste test
vlogs there are a lot more I could talk
about I get about 3 or 4 of these offers
a week most of them go right to my
emails trash bin but some of those
offers have money attached sometimes
lots of money and as a creator who came
up from nothing you start to weigh your
options on whether or not you should
make a deal
that's the creators dilemma you need to
support your family and yourself and
there are companies willing to help you
financially but the moment you as a
creator take them up on such an offer
Buhl invariably be labeled a sellout and
you have to keep in mind that for every
such video you make you risk losing a
portion of your audience so for example
the 3,000 bucks that I'm offered by the
development team of outer space
amusement park Tycoon 4 might not be
worth the 50,000 subscribers that I
would lose the moment they see a video
game let's play in their subscription
feed with my name on it up to this point
I've said no to sponsored videos simply
because I either didn't believe in the
product or because I didn't feel it
would be a good fit for the channel but
after a year of quality content and
eventually the big boys came knocking
today I'm gonna tell you what goes on
behind the scenes when making a
sponsored video you see him all over
YouTube but you probably know very
little about how they come to fruition
well wonder no more because the video
that you're watching is a sponsored
video so I decided it would be
appropriate to use it to talk about how
sponsored videos are made so meta now to
lay the groundwork the first thing you
should know is I have a website
Austin McConnell calm and I've always
hated it nobody ever went to it it was
bland and unimpressive and I tried about
every web design platform imaginable and
it always always always looked bad
aesthetic is important to me on film on
YouTube and yes on what should be my
digital showroom but over time my
embarrassing website just got more and
more embarrassing and so I essentially
used it as a landing page to redirect
people elsewhere I eventually just
settled on having it auto forward to my
youtube channel because I mean even that
was better than some cheesy tumblr
template that made the whole thing look
like somebody's abandoned livejournal it
remained that way for a long time but
then one day actually Friday September
22nd 2017 at 11:30 9 a.m. I got an email
from a representative at Squarespace
we'll call him KD hey this is Austin
from the future so at this point in the
video I was going to show you the actual
email that was sent to me with the
personal information redacted but
Squarespace contacted me and asked me to
remove the emails contents from the
video completely they felt it was just a
bit too confidential there was this
really hilarious joke where the
Squarespace employee would take the form
of NBA champion Kevin Durant except with
a British accent it made sense in the
original cut anyway I just decided to
replace all of the confidential
paperwork in this video with an artist's
approximation of them carry on hey
Austin I'm KD with Squarespace we like
what you're doing with your channel and
we'd love to sponsor you if you're
interested let us know and we're happy
to provide more details Thanks upon
receiving that email my first thought
was
[Music]
no not really my first thought was
actually this is faith like I said I get
a bunch of unsolicited offers many of
them promising huge partnerships with
big-name companies but after you do a
little investigation you find out they
want to sign you to a ridiculously
restrictive contract that'll take more
cash out of your wallet than what it
puts in needless to say I was skeptical
of KD well I decided to shoot him a
quick response and after a couple of
back-and-forth send some internet
sleuthing I was able to confirm his
identity and pretty soon we were talking
rates now to be honest I really didn't
know what the going rate was for video
sponsorships and I looked around the
internet for help and the internet got
back to me as it usually does with
contradictory information I learned that
there was this figure called CPM cost
per thousand a marketing term that
basically means how much an advertiser
pays for every one thousand views it's a
metric used in pretty much all
advertising areas radio TV newspapers
and of course nowadays YouTube so for
example if youtuber Sassafrass mac stats
underscore 89 post the video online that
gets 20,000 views and an advertiser pays
for a rate of $10 CPM or 10 bucks per
thousand views she makes about $200 but
of course that begs the question what's
the standard CPM and there's a lot of
thoughts about this it depends on a lot
of things how popular the youtuber is
how effective they are at generating
referrals and how much money the company
in question is willing to spend
I've seen recommended CPM is vary from
$15 to $50 and there's really no wrong
answer you just have to work it out with
a company in question I came up with a
rate that felt right for me and I sent
it on over to KD with the requested
information and we eventually settled on
an agreement the conversation went
something like this I said yo Dawg I'm
gonna need about this much money if I do
a sponsored video for you and then KD
said I'm willing to do half at tell me
and then I said I then he sent me a
contract I read over it with my legal
advisors signed it then squarespace
signed it too and I was given a deadline
and some guidelines now much ado has
been made about the fact that
advertisers may use their money to
control creative content but I mean it's
only fair that if they're gonna pay you
money to make a video you follow the
rules that they lay out for it and to be
honest I had pretty much no issue with
what Squarespace requested it was all
fair and square
sorry it's the basic request that you
usually get from had clients I mentioned
their products i don't disparage their
company and i keep the content clean so
to recap the process for this video
sponsorship went as follows i was
contacted by a company who asked if i'd
be interested in a partnership for a few
videos they asked me for my rate i
provided it to them we negotiated terms
and settled on something that was fair
to both parties
they then provided me with what's called
an ad read which is a list of certain
things that I was required to say and
some general ideas and suggestions for
other stuff I might mention basically AB
list of product features I actually
noticed that they were really good with
letting me change the ad read in a way
that would fit my style better they gave
me a deadline to have the videos in by
and I got to work all of that's pretty
straightforward but one thing I wasn't
gonna do was take money from a company I
didn't actually believe in hands rather
than just cash a check and direct you
dear viewer to a company blindly I
decided to you know actually put the
product to the test which leads me back
to my awful website
Squarespace claims to be the all-in-one
solution for anyone looking to create an
online presence so here's my experience
with them first thing I had to do was
transfer my website from the host I was
originally using this host is known for
having really bad customer service and I
figured I'd have a really bad time
trying to get things moved over to a new
platform but I was pleasantly surprised
that transferring domains with
Squarespace is simple I literally just
had to create an account
give them the site information and
within a few minutes I had things
switched over easy peasy oh and by the
way that old host they tried to pull
some really annoying stuff to reverse
the transfer shortly thereafter but I
called up squarespace's 24/7 customer
support and they were able to fix it
lickety-split once all that was done
actually while doing all that the
company gave me a really awesome
dashboard to start designing I've used a
lot of different web designers and I'm
not just being a company man telling you
that squarespace's was by far the
easiest that I have ever worked with I
mean my wife who has no web design
experience at all could use this thing
if she wanted in all of about two
minutes I was able to make an awesome
landing page
looked a hundred times more impressive
than anything that my sighted ever
looked like before one of the things
about working with website templates is
that you're always concerned your site
is gonna look like a carbon copy of
somebody else's that chose to use the
same template but Squarespace allowed me
to tinker with and change practically
everything about the layout of my site
they've even got handy tips on how to
design certain kinds of sites if you're
a small business and a band a
photographer if you're making a travel
blog if you're doing a wedding website
if you just feel like carving out a
digital space dedicated to your dog
they'll tell you the best way to design
the site anything you want to do
differently they'll provide you the
tools to do so
I used to blog a lot but I stopped
because I never found an easy way to
have a site that was both a showroom and
a journal but now I've got a way to
design a site that complements both
kinds of content at once and this is the
most exciting thing for me Squarespace
and makes it stupidly simple to set up a
storefront to sell pretty much whatever
you want they have a commerce section
that directly integrates into the
dashboard to manage orders track
inventory I can even set discounts if I
want I have never found an easy way to
do this and I've always wanted something
designed this way for the first time I
actually have the ability to sell my
films shows and other projects directly
through my personal website no middleman
this has huge potential for me as a
creator and I've got to tell you with
what I'm working on for this next year
this could be a total game changer I
can't express how excited I am that a
simpleton like me can now do this stuff
now there's one other thing I want to
talk about like I said they gave me that
big ad breed that had talking points of
stuff they'd like me to mention but this
wasn't on it whatever too bad so sad
here's the thing I can edit anything on
my website I can do anything that I've
talked about thus far on my phone that's
insane it's insanely useful actually and
I know that because all last week while
putting my site together I was away from
my office my sister-in-law was getting
married congratulations by the way Sarah
and I was a few hundred miles apart from
the computer that I do all of my design
work from but that didn't matter
Squarespace lets you edit and manage
your website from the palm of your hand
they've got a whole list of mobile apps
and you can even use your phone's
built-in browser to revise your site
make posts share images and videos check
analytics manage your store whatever
this is important for me because next
year I'm probably
going to be doing quite a bit of
traveling and the thought of being away
from my officer so long is really scary
especially since having a youtube
channel means I need to have a fairly
active online presence the thought of
releasing material and managing the
promotion of said material all while on
the road seemed impossible a couple
months ago now I can I can actually do
that I'm not too proud to admit
Squarespace impressed me so much so that
for the first time I felt comfortable
recommending their product to you all
sponsored videos are sometimes seen as
shady backroom deals and they aren't
without controversy we could get into
all the potential pitfalls in a later
video but I felt like if I was gonna do
one I owed it to my subscribers to be as
transparent as possible about the
process so that one day if such an
opportunity arises for you you'll know
what to expect because I know I sure
didn't now it's quite possible that my
experience in this process was atypical
maybe lots of sponsored videos are
founded on a premise that's at best
questionable and at worst dishonest
who knows maybe most are so going
forward I'll make you a few promises
first I'm not gonna become a walking
billboard my channel is owned by me it's
my name and I'm not selling it to some
company certain sponsorship
opportunities might pop up here and
there to help keep my channel running
and to put food on the table for my
family but my mango on this channel has
and always will be to be me secondly I
will only use sponsors whose products I
actually believe in I won't try and sell
you on something I haven't actually used
and if something I do advertise fails to
meet my personal satisfaction you can
rest assured I'll be the first one to
tell you and finally if you use a
product that I suggest and you're not
happy with it
I want to know and you can have my
assurance that I'll do what I can to let
your complaints be known and on that
note if you're feeling so inclined maybe
you'd like to try squarespace out for
yourself head to squarespace.com for a
free trial and when you're ready to
launch go to squarespace.com slash
austin mcconnell to save 10% off of your
first purchase of a website or domain
and there you go let me know what you
guys think talk to you soon
almost forgot about the end tag if you
liked this video then share it with
others and subscribe to my channel or
don't I don't really care
[Music]